so I'm gonna cook you know really lovely
dish I'm a musical it's worth bugging
your classic French beef stew with lots
of lovely things in it the first thing
you need is the Chuck stay so it's right
and putting a nice piece of beef like
this
now I need to trim it up a bit so you
want to get rid of the sinews so just
going to trim off the pieces so it kind
of breaks off in its natural sea use
this is a really great cut of meat
because it is quite reasonably priced
it's Chuck so it's very much kind of
quite tough piece of meat and it's got
lots and lots of sort of sinews in there
and that's why it tastes so good because
you know it's cooked for a long long
time so all those kind of bit too fat
and sinew break down and make it
incredibly tender so we're going to sort
of chop in slices so you've got kind of
like 2/3 centimeter cubes and it's it's
really sort of quite tough meat so it
will take about three hours of cooking
and it you know my mum used to make it
the day before so that flavor you sort
of go through and the next day it would
be even stronger and more delicious and
you can eat it straight how did the oven
once it's being cooked but it's actually
better the next day so my mother's but I
was big inspiration by cooking because
you know we stew eat really well as kids
you know he's had lovely food at home I
think my first food experience I should
realise I was gonna be a chef because I
think when I passed 6 years old actually
wrote a little menu and made these some
sandwiches sort of sandwich me and it
was only like two sandwiches on the menu
but I kind of went out into the into the
garden and my parents were so keen
gardeners gardening and I would go with
it you know these two two sounds on the
menu and they would sort of choose one
on something you know pretend it was a
big long menu so there's gonna put some
flour on to the beef that will give it a
nice bit of color and all sort of
thicken up the sauce slightly but first
of all I'm going to get the smoked bacon
so smoked bacon and then just a little
bit of olive oil in the pan so we'll get
some oil in goes our bacon so what I
don't do is try and get all of that fat
out of the bacon so that the fat then
sort of seasons to be the base coat you
know must run a flower on it just going
to take it away from all that excess
flour just let's just lightly coated not
too much
it'll just the source become too thick
so take that off a little bit of salt
not too much because the the bacon is
quite salty to make sure that's all goes
in together and then I'm just going to
pop that in the pan
I wanna get a nice bit of color on it
okay so we're lasting on do start
stirring the beef straight away because
what happens all the flour will come off
and the beef won't Brown we'll just get
all sort of sort of soft and must boil
in the pan so I hear that can run red
board and then this is where all the
chopping starts so we've got some carrot
some onion I'm just going to chop that
up nice and fine so in different knife
different job different knife really
good they never have a sharp enough
knife over okay and then just cut the
carrot in sort of long strips that they
worried about too much and in thank you
know some people spend hours chopping
vegetables to sort of perfect size but I
wouldn't read too much because it's
going to be cooking for a long time
screaming for three hours so it's really
very well cooked
so the carrots there for sort of
sweetness you know onion and carrot and
celery and those kind of ingredients is
sort of always brilliant in stews or
soups because they have a sort of
natural sweetness to them if you don't
have them it can taste a little a little
bit bland so that's our carrot then the
little onion whose side this nice
together for that so this this is my
mom's recipe I mean it's kind of you
know the classic roof bug in your on you
know take kind of days to make your a
strain everything and it's all kind of
quite quite precise this really is a
sort of chuck in the oven and hope what
I hope for the best is can always taste
good but you chuck in the elbe and wait
three hours and and eat it so it's it's
um it's a bit of a foolproof recipe
really and it's something that you know
my mother's kind of a very much cook to
their heart so it was kind of that sort
of style that you know is why I cook
them are too but is that's a way of
cooking where it is quite sort of simple
just pop the garlic so what I'm going to
do we're going to just turn the beef
over have a look at it so some nice
bit of color on it now and all that sort
of fat and the bacon is all kind of you
know gone and gone into the mid Co that
sort of salty smokiness what kind of
flavor will develop into the beef and
then bit of onion and they go there's
the onion and the carrot and then we're
just going to make sure that all goes in
together and start sealing off so just
throw that so it's all kind of
incorporated together and the onion and
the the carrot cooks bit of garlic I'm
just gonna ship clove of garlic in and
then now we've nipped the herbs we've
got some some thyme and a bit of bay
leaf I can use some of these potatoes
I'm also going to put one what should
too in the stew because a lovely sort of
depth of flavor a little bit of thyme
feel that not too much just a bit pop
that in with the bay leaf and then now
we're a little bit of tomato puree so
little squirt of tomato puree and some
chopped tomatoes that's the tomatoes our
chopped tomatoes give it a nice stir
then plenty of red wine and a really
nice good robust red wine you can spritz
most things or you're saying quite a
quite dry with it it's a good good
choice so that's the wine and then beef
stock now you can buy beef stock you can
we buy stock use everything but if you
can be bothered to make it it makes such
a difference but you could use chicken
stock that's one
okay so we've got pretty much everything
in there now but the bay leaf the beef
everything and there were just kind of
some of these little onions now normally
traditionally they'd fly them off and
with the little lardons of bacon but
we're just going to sort of throw it in
because this is quite quite a quick and
easy version of it so in go the little
pearl onions give it a really nice stir
make sure stirred just enough liquid
just set sort of just sort of sitting is
kind of covered in it and a bit more and
then lid on you can always add a bit
liquid if it seems a bit dry so we're
going to put it in the oven for three
hours at 170 degrees one hundred six
hundred and seventy if you feel is
cooking - going to turn it down a bit
and if it's seen a little bit dry add a
bit of stock but you need to cook it
quite a long time because the chuck
steak is quite tough so in she goes and
then this one's been cooking for about
three hours and core not good right now
it's very important to actually let it
rest so you want to get all those sort
of flavors to kind of you know the meats
or tenderize you can't cut it easy
straightaway - a little bit hot and not
so nice so you let it sort of rest of it
okay so let's have a little taste to it
so now it should be really kind of
really really soft to the pickup piece
of meat it should just be able to break
on the fork and is perfect and then
let's grater
solicitous just like my mom how's your
perfect